README.md, before:

## Hi there, I'm Rahul! 👋
<!-- Profile updated - Force rebuild -->

<p align="center">
<a href="https://x.com/errahul289/" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-icons@3.0.1/icons/twitter.svg" alt="RS" height="30" width="30" /></a>&nbsp;
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/rahul-singh-0502/" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-icons@3.0.1/icons/linkedin.svg" alt="rahul sing" height="30" width="30" /></a>&nbsp;
<a href="https://www.credly.com/users/fnu-rahul" target="blank"><img align="center" src="credly.svg" alt="rahul sing" height="30" width="30" /></a>&nbsp;
</p>

## 👩‍💻 About Me

I'm Rahul

- 🔭 I'm working as Lead Data Engineer and Solution Architect at AWS
- 📚 I have extensive experience across the full technology stack:
  - 🌐 Web Development (Full-Stack Applications)
  - 🔗 APIs & Microservices Architecture
  - 🗄️ SQL Databases & Data Warehousing
  - 📊 Big Data & Distributed Systems
  - 🤖 GenAI & Machine Learning Solutions
- 🚀 I'm currently helping customers building data and AI solutions
- ⚡ In my free time I love spending time with my kids

## 🛠 Language and tools

<!-- https://devicon.dev/ -->
<div align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/apachespark/apachespark-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" alt="go logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/amazonwebservices/amazonwebservices-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" alt="rust logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/python/python-original.svg" height="40" alt="ruby logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="Athena.svg" height="40" alt="dot-net logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="mwaa.svg" height="40" alt="firebase logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="Glue.svg" height="40" alt="amazonwebservices logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="SageMaker.svg" height="40" alt="circleci logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="Redshift.svg" height="40" alt="kubernetes logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="DynamoDB.svg" height="40" alt="kubernetes logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="s3.svg" height="40" alt="docker logo"  />
</div>

## 🌱 What do I do and What have I done? 

- Working as Lead Data Engineer and Solution Architect at AWS, unblocking customers to succeed on AWS. 
- Now, along with Big Data, also working on Agentic AI initiatives including building prototypes and training.
- Started career as .Net Developer and worked as Web/Windows App developer. 
- By getting fascinated by data, became self taught MSBI and Microsoft Tech Stack Data Engineer. 
- From last 6 years work in Big Data, out of which last 3 years working with AWS Big Data Tech stack.
- Loving building big data framework and solutions.

## 🚀 Continuous Learning & Innovation

- **Self-Taught Technology Adoption**: Successfully transitioned from .NET development to Big Data engineering through self-directed learning
- **Emerging Technologies**: Actively exploring and implementing cutting-edge solutions in GenAI, ML Ops, and Serverless architectures
- **AWS Innovation**: Stay current with latest AWS services and features, often being among the first to implement new capabilities for customers
- **Knowledge Sharing**: Regularly contribute to technical blogs and conduct workshops to share learnings with the community
- **Certification Journey**: Continuously pursuing advanced certifications to validate expertise and learn new technologies

## 💼 Professional Experience

### 🚀 [Amazon Web Services (April 2021 - Present)](amazon-experience.md)
**Cloud Engineer II** | Subject Matter Expert for AWS Big Data & ML Services
- Global point of contact for Deep Dive sessions and guidance
- Lead Cost and Performance Optimization Pillar of Well-Architected Framework
- Worked different engagements to reduce customer costs ranging 20-40% annually through optimization strategies
- Work with different AWS service builders to fix bugs and provide guidance to resolve issues
- 100% customer satisfaction with zero SLA misses

### 🏢 [Cognizant Technology Solutions (January 2011 - March 2021)](cognizant-experience.md)
**Technical Lead / Senior Big Data Developer** | 10+ Years Career Evolution
- Evolved from .NET Developer to Big Data Technical Lead
- Led enterprise projects for AIG, Johnson & Johnson, 7-Eleven, and Schwan's
- Delivered 50-60% performance improvements across multiple projects
- Architected serverless data pipelines and big data frameworks

## <img src = "https://media1.giphy.com/media/JZ40cnfnN11KycrvMF/giphy.gif?cid=ecf05e47a0n3gi1bfqntqmob8g9aid1oyj2wr3ds3mg700bl&rid=giphy.gif" width = '23' /> My Latest Blog posts:
<!-- BLOG-POST-LIST:START -->
- [Glue Cost Optimization Technique](https://medium.com/@DataTechBridge/strategies-for-making-aws-glue-work-harder-without-costing-more-a755ed7a8db2)
- [Securing Your AWS Glue : Unlocking 5 Best Practices for Enhanced Data Protection
](hhttps://medium.com/@DataTechBridge/securing-your-aws-glue-unlocking-5-best-practices-for-enhanced-data-protection-fe78c8ab78dd)
- [Troubleshooting Glue Connection Issues: A Comprehensive Guide](https://medium.com/@DataTechBridge/troubleshooting-glue-connection-issues-a-comprehensive-guide-56eec050ebaf)
- [Unveiling the Top 10 Powerful Features of AWS Glue(ETL) : Simplify and Supercharge Your ETL Processes!](https://medium.com/@DataTechBridge/top-10-features-of-aws-glue-etl-job-742f98f20b27)
<!-- BLOG-POST-LIST:END -->

▶ [... view more](https://medium.com/@DataTechBridge)

Commit message:

Revise AWS experience and role details in README
Updated employment dates and added responsibilities for Technical Account Manager role.

README.md, after:

## Hi there, I'm Rahul! 👋
<!-- Profile updated - Force rebuild -->

<p align="center">
<a href="https://x.com/errahul289/" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-icons@3.0.1/icons/twitter.svg" alt="RS" height="30" width="30" /></a>&nbsp;
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/rahul-singh-0502/" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-icons@3.0.1/icons/linkedin.svg" alt="rahul sing" height="30" width="30" /></a>&nbsp;
<a href="https://www.credly.com/users/fnu-rahul" target="blank"><img align="center" src="credly.svg" alt="rahul sing" height="30" width="30" /></a>&nbsp;
</p>

## 👩‍💻 About Me

I'm Rahul

- 🔭 I'm working as Lead Data Engineer and Solution Architect at AWS
- 📚 I have extensive experience across the full technology stack:
  - 🌐 Web Development (Full-Stack Applications)
  - 🔗 APIs & Microservices Architecture
  - 🗄️ SQL Databases & Data Warehousing
  - 📊 Big Data & Distributed Systems
  - 🤖 GenAI & Machine Learning Solutions
- 🚀 I'm currently helping customers building data and AI solutions
- ⚡ In my free time I love spending time with my kids

## 🛠 Language and tools

<!-- https://devicon.dev/ -->
<div align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/apachespark/apachespark-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" alt="go logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/amazonwebservices/amazonwebservices-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" alt="rust logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/python/python-original.svg" height="40" alt="ruby logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="Athena.svg" height="40" alt="dot-net logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="mwaa.svg" height="40" alt="firebase logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="Glue.svg" height="40" alt="amazonwebservices logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="SageMaker.svg" height="40" alt="circleci logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="Redshift.svg" height="40" alt="kubernetes logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="DynamoDB.svg" height="40" alt="kubernetes logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="s3.svg" height="40" alt="docker logo"  />
</div>

## 🌱 What do I do and What have I done? 

- Working as Lead Data Engineer and Solution Architect at AWS, unblocking customers to succeed on AWS. 
- Now, along with Big Data, also working on Agentic AI initiatives including building prototypes and training.
- Started career as .Net Developer and worked as Web/Windows App developer. 
- By getting fascinated by data, became self taught MSBI and Microsoft Tech Stack Data Engineer. 
- From last 6 years work in Big Data, out of which last 3 years working with AWS Big Data Tech stack.
- Loving building big data framework and solutions.

## 🚀 Continuous Learning & Innovation

- **Self-Taught Technology Adoption**: Successfully transitioned from .NET development to Big Data engineering through self-directed learning
- **Emerging Technologies**: Actively exploring and implementing cutting-edge solutions in GenAI, ML Ops, and Serverless architectures
- **AWS Innovation**: Stay current with latest AWS services and features, often being among the first to implement new capabilities for customers
- **Knowledge Sharing**: Regularly contribute to technical blogs and conduct workshops to share learnings with the community
- **Certification Journey**: Continuously pursuing advanced certifications to validate expertise and learn new technologies

## 💼 Professional Experience

### 🚀 [Amazon Web Services (June 2025 - Present)](amazon-experience.md)
**Technical Account Manager** | Startups
- Serve as trusted technical advisor for startup customers, providing strategic guidance on AWS architecture and best practices
- Drive proactive engagement through Well-Architected Framework reviews and optimization recommendations, like 66K anually savings with S3 optimization, EC2 and OpenSearch r6a to r8g gravition migration with 46% cost optimization. 
- Lead customer onboarding initiatives leveraging AWS Enterprise Support capabilities
- Coordinate cross-functional resources including AWS Concierge team for billing optimization and service teams for technical escalations
- Manage customer health and satisfaction through regular business reviews and technical deep dives
- Provide expertise in AWS Big Data, ML services, and cost optimization strategies
- Maintain strong customer relationships with focus on long-term success and cloud adoption acceleration

- 
### 🚀 [Amazon Web Services (April 2021 - June 2025)](amazon-experience.md)
**Cloud Engineer II** | Subject Matter Expert for AWS Big Data & ML Services
- Global point of contact for Deep Dive sessions and guidance
- Lead Cost and Performance Optimization Pillar of Well-Architected Framework
- Worked different engagements to reduce customer costs ranging 20-40% annually through optimization strategies
- Work with different AWS service builders to fix bugs and provide guidance to resolve issues
- 100% customer satisfaction with zero SLA misses

### 🏢 [Cognizant Technology Solutions (January 2011 - March 2021)](cognizant-experience.md)
**Technical Lead / Senior Big Data Developer** | 10+ Years Career Evolution
- Evolved from .NET Developer to Big Data Technical Lead
- Led enterprise projects for AIG, Johnson & Johnson, 7-Eleven, and Schwan's
- Delivered 50-60% performance improvements across multiple projects
- Architected serverless data pipelines and big data frameworks

## <img src = "https://media1.giphy.com/media/JZ40cnfnN11KycrvMF/giphy.gif?cid=ecf05e47a0n3gi1bfqntqmob8g9aid1oyj2wr3ds3mg700bl&rid=giphy.gif" width = '23' /> My Latest Blog posts:
<!-- BLOG-POST-LIST:START -->
- [Glue Cost Optimization Technique](https://medium.com/@DataTechBridge/strategies-for-making-aws-glue-work-harder-without-costing-more-a755ed7a8db2)
- [Securing Your AWS Glue : Unlocking 5 Best Practices for Enhanced Data Protection
](hhttps://medium.com/@DataTechBridge/securing-your-aws-glue-unlocking-5-best-practices-for-enhanced-data-protection-fe78c8ab78dd)
- [Troubleshooting Glue Connection Issues: A Comprehensive Guide](https://medium.com/@DataTechBridge/troubleshooting-glue-connection-issues-a-comprehensive-guide-56eec050ebaf)
- [Unveiling the Top 10 Powerful Features of AWS Glue(ETL) : Simplify and Supercharge Your ETL Processes!](https://medium.com/@DataTechBridge/top-10-features-of-aws-glue-etl-job-742f98f20b27)
<!-- BLOG-POST-LIST:END -->

▶ [... view more](https://medium.com/@DataTechBridge)
